- [Instructor] For this video,
we're going to continue using our custom GitHub accounts
that everyone has hopefully created.
If you need to validate your code
against the lab files for this video,
we're using 0404 begin and 0404 end.
Let's go ahead and open, IntelliJ,
continuing to use project that we've loaded
from our last video,
we have the project loaded from the home directory
as you can see here, and let's go down to our terminal,
we're going to type Git switch main
go back to the main directory.
We'll type, Git fetch origin,
to update our local repository
with the changes that we've pushed
and then we'll type Git pull origin.
This will sync our local copy
with all of the changes merged from GitHub.
Now to keep all of our code features separate
and our branches separate,
we're going to create another branch for this video
called war workflow, AWS.
Inside of our terminal we'll type, Git checkout dash B war
underscore workflow underscore AWS, hit enter.
Git push dash U origin war
underscore workflow underscore AWS and hit enter.
This will create the branch war workflow, AWS in GitHub.
Okay, let's go ahead and open,
now our browser's back up again,
we'll go to the AWS console
and we're going to create a new application and environment.
So look on elastic beanstalk, look on create application,
for the application name,
we'll call this spring boot broad web app,
for the platform we'll select Tomcat.
We'll leave it on Tomcat eight five with Corretto 11.
At the bottom, we'll leave the defaults as they are
and click create application.
After this is done, feel free to go eat a cup of coffee,
walk the dog, take a shower, whatever you want,
you will be waiting.
Well, that was quick, at least for me, magic of editing.
Okay, the last thing we want to do here
is we want to set up the JVM options for our spring profile.
So click on configurations on the left
and then when this loads we'll click on software
and in the JVM options,
we're going to type dash D spring profiles dot active
and we'll set this to dev, go ahead and apply.
We're going to go back to IntelliJ
and we've already created the new branch.
We're going to modify the source code
for a war build
and let let's start,
with our spring boot prod application dot java.
So we'll open main Java and go down to spring boot.
We'll open this up.
We'll tell this to extends from spring boot,
servletinitializer, underneath the public static void main,
we're going to have an override and this will be protected.
Spring application builder
method will be configure,
will take a spring application builder,
use builder for the object name
and we're going to say builder dot sources,
will be the name of our class,
spring boot prod application dot class.
We're got to add a return,
save that again.
Now we're going to go to our build gradle file,
will go to the top, and to add the ID war,
will have a boot war curly brackets.
Inside of this, we'll give it the archive file name
which is going to be,
our spring boot prod application dot war.
This should all sound familiar
because we've done this before back in video 0202.
Next we're going to tell gradle
to make the implicit Tomcat dependency
as provided run time.
So we'll type provided run time
and we're going to type org dot spring framework
dot boot colon spring boot dash starter Tomcat.
And if you remember, we did this
because spring boot starter web includes Tomcat.
So we, now we need to,
know this that it's provided time.
Save that and the last thing we need to do
is update our application dot properties.
So we'll go to resources, application dot properties
and we're going to go right here
underneath management endpoints.
We're going to type server dot servlet,
context path equals
slash spring boot prod application.
We'll save that
and then we'll come down here,
let's clear the screen and we'll type, gradle clean build.
Okay, so we're almost done
and now the next thing we need to do,
is alter our GitHub workflow file.
Still here in the terminal,
we're going to type LS dash LA build libs hit enter
and this shows us two war files
and what we want to pay attention to is the one on the bottom
without the version number.
But we're going to copy that
and we're going to use that later.
Next let's open our GitHub workflow action.
This is up here at the top,
we'll click on that.
With that open, we're going to scroll down to the bottom
and we're going to change the deployment package
to spring boot prod application war.
So I'm going to select this, base that in
and we're also going to change the application name
spring boot prod web app
and change the environment name,
spring boot prod web app ENV.
In the terminal we'll type clear
and then we'll type get add, get commit dash M
and this is going to be changes to the project
to make this a war deployment to AWS.
Commit that and we'll finish this by typing
Git push dash U origin war
workflow underscore AWS.
Now, at this point, let's go back to GitHub
and we already see that the war workflow AWS
has recent changes.
So we'll click on this to compare
to pull those requests.
Right now, it's checking to see
if it can be merged and it says it can,
so we'll create the pull request
and this will fire off the first action.
We'll go ahead and allow that to happen
and I'm going to click merge pull request,
and click confirm.
If we go to our actions
we can see that both of these are fired off,
I'm going to click on the top one, click on build
and we should see something like this.
We'll expand end it,
we do have an error,
let's take a look at the error and see what happened.
I believe this is because it's doing a double deploy,
so let's go ahead and check the previous action
and the previous action is still working.
Click on it.
Yep, this is because the previous action was running.
So it is deploying now, the war file,
our comment says jar, but it is a war
and the status from spring boot is,
it's ready, healthy, and green
and so if we go back to our spring boot prod web app
we can see that everything has been deployed,
this is our spring boot prod web app environment.
We'll click on this
and our application is loaded in Dev.